---
title: Interview Experience Part 2
layout: post
abstract: Ph.D. Interview Experience at IIT Delhi and IITM, Pune during July 2019
tags:
- Interview
author: Arka Prava Sarkar
cover: "/img/int2.jpg"
---

This is part 2 of the Ph.D. Interviews I attended during 2019 July Session. I will discuss here the questions that I faced in the department of Atmospheric Sciences, IIT Delhi and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. Most of the Questions were similar in both the places. My answers will be followed as A.

IIT Delhi Interview time : 45 Minutes ; IITM Pune : 40-45 Mins. Since both the institutes asked for a SOP, they knew beforehand that my area of interest was Atmospheric/Climate Modelling and Simulations

Q1. Explain the differences between Euler's method and Runge-Kutta Method for solving a Differential Equation.

A. Explained.

Q2. What changes do you expect when you use RK4 instead of RK2?

A. Explained

Q3. Derive the Simpson's 1/3rd formula using only 3 points.

A. Was struck for a few moments, but was able to solve that.

Q4. If you have a model system which is represented using a Probability distribution, then which one of the simulation methods between Monte Carlo and Molecular Dynamics will you use to find the properties of the system?

A. Answered.

Q5. Draw the phase diagram of water and explain

A. Explained, but was stuck for a brief moment

Q6. Explain first order and second order phase transition

A. Explained.

Q7. Write the Navier-Stokes Theorem

A. It took some help from the panelists to complete this, as I had no prior detailed experience in Fluid Dynamics.

Q8. Do you know CFD?

A. No

Q9. Briefly explain Brownian motion.

A. Explained.

End of interview.

There were some basic factual questions about atmosphere and earth system, which was of high school level. Also there were some questions based on chemical thermodynamics which I forgot now, as I didn't had much knowledge about those topics back then. Overall, this was the scenario in the two institutes.
