---
title: Interview Experience Part 3
layout: post
abstract: Ph.D. Interview Experience at University of Druesden during December 2018
math: true
author: Arka Prava Sarkar
cover: "/img/int3.jpg"
---

This is part 3 of the Ph.D. Interviews I faced during my Ph.D search. The general idea of this post is to make everyone aware of how different the interviews are conducted in foreign universities compared to the ones in India. This one is for the Ph.D. position in the materials science and biophysics group under the department of natural sciences, University of Druesden, Germany. The interview was conducted via skype and lasted over 2.30 hours. My answers will be followed as A.

Panelists : PI and his Post Doc Fellow

After the PI introduces himself and his post doc

Q1. So Mr. Sarkar (failing to pronounce my first name after several attempts), please introduce yourself.

A. Introduced myself for good 4-5 minutes, particularly highlighting my academic career and research interests.

Q2. Lets talk about something else before formally starting the interview. Do you have any other interests outside academia?

A. Told him my interests.

He was astonished to hear that German football leagues are followed in India as well. A good long chat continues about football, and he was kind enough to know about the football culture in india as well. This goes on for about 9-10 minutes.

Q3. Now let's begin. I see that you have done your masters thesis on Monte Carlo simulations on liquid crystals. Chapter 3 of your thesis looks promising. Why didn't you proceed for a publication?

A. Explained him the constraints that I had to face about clearing competitive exams.

Q4. Can you write an algorithm to find HCF of two numbers?

A. Completed.

Q5. Write a small code to implement the algorithm.

A. Done

Q6. Can you integrate \\( e^{x}\sin(x)\\) between \\(\pi /2\\) to \\(\pi\\) using Monte Carlo method?

A. Wrote a program to evaluate that.

Q7. How did you computed the simulations during your thesis work? By writing a code or using some package?

A. Wrote the codes all by myself in C++

Q8. Happy to hear that. Can you explain me the major difference between a for loop and a while loop in C/C++?

A. Explained

Q9. Please look at the system as shown in the screen (it was a DNA interaction system with water). The interaction potential is given to you. Can you obtain a static radial distribution curve for this?

A. Wrote the code. It took around 35-40 minutes to write it correctly and obtaining the curve. They were extremely patient. 

Q10. Very good. Although it is not as perfect, but we really appreciate your effort. Now can you obtain the dynamic radial distribution curve?

A. I don't have working knowledge of Moelcular Dynamics. I am sorry.

Q11. That's alright. Please explain to us what informations can you obtain from the RDF curve you obtained.

A. Explained them in detail. Took around 40 mins as they were discussing with me every steps.

Q12. Now we would like to know about the topics you might be comfortable discussing.

A. Quantum Mechanics, Mathematical Physics, Statistical Mechanics.

Q13. Suppose you have a simple element, say sodium (Z = 11). We somehow obtain the radial wavefunctions for each electron separately. Now we want to store the information in a Hard Disk which has a coarse grid of 100 points along each direction. What size of the Hard Disk do you expect we need to store this information?

A. Answered them with the calcuation

Q14. Can you write the code for a 1-D Ising Model and show that there is no phase transition?

A. Did that, although they helped me in between.

Now the PI explains the project on which he his looking for the PhD scholar, and explains the wok culture in his lab and the expectations from me.

Q15. You are free to ask me anything and we would be happ to know what are your expectations from us.

A. Told them, although I was afraid telling him these points (as these things don't happen here). 

The interview ends with a thank you note from each side.

P.S : I was selected for the position, but I couldn't join due to family as well as my health issue, due to which my visa was rejected.
