---
title: Interview Experience Part 4
layout: post
abstract: Ph.D. Interview Experience at University of Paris during January 2020
author: Arka Prava Sarkar
cover: "/img/int4.jpg"
---

This is the final part (part 4) of the Ph.D. Interviews I attended. This one took place in Janary 2020. I had already registered as a Ph.D. candidate in India. It was for a Ph.D. position in the department of Physics, Paris University, France. The interview was conducted via skype. My answers will be followed as A.

The topic was based on Theoretical investigations of Low dimensional materials for battery technology and energy storage applications.

Panelists : PI, his post doc and Head of the Department.

Interview time : around 3 hours

Since they already asked for my CV, a motivational letter and one LOR, they were already aware of the subjects and my masters thesis. The introductory greetings was more or less similar to that what I wrote in part 3, with some changes.

Q1. Tell me why do you want to discontinue your current Ph.D. position?

A. Explained them my interests and the reasons. Note that this question is extremely important in situations like these. One might be judged to a good extent according to the explanation given.

Q2. (satisfied with my previous response) Can you explain what are basis sets and why do we need them?

A. Answered briefly at first. HoD was not too happy. He asked for a detailed mathematical description. Did that convincingly.

Q3. What are the advantages and disadvantages of Plane Wave basis sets over Gaussian basis sets?

A. Exppained it. The discussion went a bit long (around 10 mins)

Q4. Since this project is based on DFT studies and Machine Learning, we would like to discuss with you about these two topics. Which one would you prefer first?

A. DFT (as my knowledge on ML was not very strong that time)

Q5. Great. So tell me, Local Density Approximation is what kind of a functional? And in which systems LDA works best?

A. Explained them mathematically along with some references.

Q6. How does Generalised Gradient Approximations corrects the failures of LDA?

A. Explained in detail. The discussion again went quite long.

Q7. You wrote in your SOP that you have elementary working knowledge of Quantum Espresso package. What are the works you have done till now? 

A. Told them briefly.

Q8. Explain the smearing phenomena. Also explain what is the ideal smearing width for any system in general.

A. Explained.

Q9. What are high symmetry k points? How will you find the high symmetry k points of a BCC lattice?

A. Explained them in details.

Q10. What other packages you have used?

A. Gaussian and CP2K.

Q11. Can you find IR spectra of NH3 using Gaussian?

A. Explained them briefly the procedure.

Q12. Now we will focus on Machine Learning. Explain the mathematics of Linear Regression.

A. Explained

Q13. What is the fundamental idea behind Bayesian Network?

A. Explained.

Q14. We have a small exercise for you. We will send you a dataset. Find out how the machine will respond to a person who wants to buy a car based on the data available, allowing him to find the best car. You can send the code after the interview as well.

A. Answered after interview. They were impressed as I wrote the code from scratch.

Q15. Explain Support Vector Machines

A. Explained briefly.

Q16. Now we want to discuss about the materials part. What is the general idea behind energy storage? Why 2D materials have greater capacity?

A. Explained. Again the discussion went long.

Q17. What kind of materials as per your knowledge, are in currently trending in the areas of battery technology and why?

A. Explained them. Since HoD works on the experimental areas of these topics, he was interested in discussing about the experimental techniques as well, which didn't go as per my expectations.
 After these, some general discussions on high school level Physics and Chemistry took place. The interview ended after that.

P.S : The results was scheduled to be declared around end of February, 2020. Everyone knows what happened after that.
