---
title: Interview Experience Part 1
layout: post
cover: "/img/int1.jpg"
abstract: Here, I will share my Ph.D. Interview experiences I faced during 2019 and
  2020. I will discuss the interview experiences of both Indian and Foreign universities.
tags:
- Interview
math: true
author: Arka Prava Sarkar
---

First, I will discuss the interview questions I faced in the 2 departments of IIT Kharagpur here (Physics, CCDS). The interview questions in some other IITs where I have appeared for interview (IIT delhi, Patna, IISER Kolkata etc.) are more or less similar. I will start with the common questions that were asked in the 2 departments, and I will separately mention the different questions asked departmental wise. My answers will be followed as A. Note that these question can also be asked in Computational Condensed Matter and/or Computational Biophysics groups.

Physics : around 7-8 faculty members

Interview time : around 20 minutes

Q1: What is your area of interest?

A: Computational Physics and Simulation Techniques

Q2. Evaluate the integral \\(\frac{1}{x^{2}}\\) from \\(-\infty\\) to \\(+\infty\\)

A. Done

Q3. Plot the function \\(x \ln(x)\\)

A. Done

Q4. (From Masters thesis) Explain in detail about Liquid Crystals.

A. Explained, with a little bit of help

Q5. What is an order parameter?

A. Explained.

Q6. What is inverse method in Monte Carlo Simulation?

A. I had no idea about this. Physics department was very adament in this question, and they were particularly not very impressed as I couldn't answer this one.

Q7. We suppose you know how to find the value of \\(\pi\\) using Monte Carlo technique. Can you find the value of \\(e\\) using same?

A. Did this, although much help was required. One faculty in Physics department helped me out. Was able to solve the same in other interviews.

Q8. Draw the LJ potential and find it's minima.

A. Done

Q9. Suppose a system is placed around the minima of LJ potential. If the system is moved slightly and released, will it execute SHM?

A. Answered with a bit of help again in the Physics department.

Q10. What are differences between Monte Carlo and Molecular Dynamics Simulations?

A. Answered.

Q11. Do you have any other interests?

A. Density Functional Theory. 

Q12. Explain the HK theorem and show that DFT is a Ground state theory.

A. Answered.

Q13. What were your electives in MSc?

A. Astrophysics and GTR, High Energy and Computational Physics

Some questions from HEP and Astro were asked in the Physics department, but my answers were not very convincing. The interview ends.

Now the different questions asked in the other departments apart from the above ones.

CCDS : 4 faculty members

Interview time : Around 1 hour 15 minutes

Q1. Write the Hartree-Fock equations

A. Done

Q2. What is meant by Self Consistent equation?

A. Explained.

Q3. Explain the Einstein equation in Brownian motion.

A. Explained

Q4. Write the Focker-Plank equation

A. Done

Q5. Do you know Potential Energy Surface?

A. Explained empirically with a bit of help

Q6. Can you explain the quantum mechanical phenomenon behind DNA mutation?

A. Explained

Q7. What is a functional? Why the observables are represented as a functional of Density in DFT?

A. Explained in detail.

Q8. Explain the nature of Kohn-Sham eigenvalues

A. Explained

Q9. Do you know Hueckel's MO theory? Can you write the secular equation using the Hueckel's 
theory for Benzene?

A. Answered the first part. Forgot the second one.

The interview ends.
